How_to_setup_global_broadcast.md, before:

# How to Screencast a Study Group Session

## Setup (for organizers)

1. Log in to Google with the instructor.retreat@gmail.com group account. 
2. Visit the Hangouts On Air page for the Instructor Retreat Google+ page (). 
  1. Visit the Instructor Retreat's Google+ page.
  2. In the drop-down menu at the top-left of the page, click on Hangouts.
  3. At the top, click on the Hangouts on Air tab in the centre. 
5. Click the "Create a Hangout On Air" button. 
6. Name the Hangout using the following format: HH:00 XM UTC Topic Name, by Presenter Name
  * An example would be: 3:00 AM UTC Contributorship session, by Isabell Kiral-Korne
7. Select "Later" and indicate the date and time. 
8. When the time comes, follow the broadcast instructions below. 

## Broadcast (for presenters)

1. Ensure that you meet the [minimum requirements](https://support.google.com/hangouts/answer/1216376) for Google Hangouts. 
2. If so, install the [Google Hangouts plugin](https://tools.google.com/dlpage/hangoutplugin) if you don't already have it. 
3. Log in to Google with the Instructor Retreat account. Ask an [organizer](tiffany.timbers@gmail.com) for this.
4. Visit the event page for the Hangout on Air. 
  1. Visit the Instructor Retreat's Google+ page.
  2. In the drop-down menu at the top-left of the page, click on Events.
  3. Click on the relevant Hangouts On Air event. 
5. If you want the audience to be able to ask questions, click the "Q&A" button (located to the right of the start button).
6. Click on the Start button. 
7. If you are not doing a round table discussion, skip the "Invite guests" step. 
8. If you want to share your screen, switch the video to your screen by enabling the Screenshare app (look for green icon on the left-hand side).
  * If you will be switching between windows during the lesson, it would be best that you screenshare the entire screen.
9. Wait until the loading is ready (at the bottom) and then click "Start Broadcast". 
10. When you finish your session click "Stop Broadcast"

Commit message:

Updated how to set-up google hangout on air for global broadcast sessions
These instructions now work for people setting up the broadcast from their own Google account.

How_to_setup_global_broadcast.md, after:

# How to Screencast a Study Group Session

## Setup ahead of Retreat

1. Log in to your Google account (if you do not have one, you will need to get one). 
2. Go to the Google+ page for your acount.
3. Visit the Hangouts On Air page for the Google+ page (). 
4. In the drop-down menu at the top-left of the page, click on Hangouts.
5. At the top, click on the Hangouts on Air tab in the centre. 
6. Click the "Create a Hangout On Air" button. 
7. Name the Hangout using the following format: HH:00 XM UTC, Software + Data Carpentry Instructor & Helper Retreat, Topic Name, by Presenter Name
  * An example would be: 3:00 AM UTC, Software + Data Carpentry Instructor & Helper Retreat, Contributorship session, by Isabell Kiral-Korne
8. Select "Later" and indicate the date and time. 
  * You may be asked to set-up and/or confirm your YouTube account, if so follow the instructions
9. After the Hangout on Air is setup, please paste the link beside your global broadcast session in the [Retreat general planning etherpad](https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/swc-instructor-helper-retreat-2015).
  * The URL for your Hangout on Air can be found on the "Details" panel for the event, click "Links" (right hand side) to get a dropdown box and copy the event page link.
10. When the time comes, follow the broadcast instructions below. 

## Broadcast on the day of the Retreat

1. Ensure that you meet the [minimum requirements](https://support.google.com/hangouts/answer/1216376) for Google Hangouts. 
2. If so, install the [Google Hangouts plugin](https://tools.google.com/dlpage/hangoutplugin) if you don't already have it. 
3. Log in to your Google account. 
4. Visit the event page for the Hangout on Air. 
5. Visit your Google+ page.
6. In the drop-down menu at the top-left of the page, click on Events.
7. Click on the relevant Hangouts On Air event. 
  * If you want the audience to be able to ask questions, click the "Q&A" button (located to the right of the start button).
8. Click on the Start button. 
  * If you are not doing a round table discussion, skip the "Invite guests" step. 
  * If you want to share your screen, switch the video to your screen by enabling the Screenshare app (look for green icon on the left-hand side).
  * If you will be switching between windows during the lesson, it would be best that you screenshare the entire screen.
9. Wait until the loading is ready (at the bottom) and then click "Start Broadcast". 
10. When you finish your session click "Stop Broadcast"
